We were just able to console log out the product idea that the user was trying to add to the shopping
cart.
So now we need to add in some additional logic to our root handler and make sure that we take that product
I.D. and actually assign it to a cart stored inside of our carts repository.
So in other words we want to find the cart associate with this user.
Take a look at that items array and add a new item or new object inside there that represents the product
that the user just clicked on.
Now unfortunately going through this is going to be just a little bit challenging.
Let me tell you why there are really a couple of different side cases or corner cases we need to consider
when all this logic gets executed.
The first thing we need to consider is the case in which a user comes to our application for the very
first time and clicks on ad a product.
If a user comes to our application for the very first time there's not going to be any cart inside of
our carts repository that corresponds to that user.
So in that case we'll need to make sure that we create a cart.
The other scenario is whenever a user has came to our application and added a product before in that
scenario when a user makes this request inside the cookie we're going to have some cart I.D. because
this user has already bench our application they've already created a cart.
We already have something inside of our carts repository corresponding to this user.
So in this scenario we're going to have to go through the carts repository and find the appropriate
cart.
So again two scenarios to consider.
There are an additional two scenarios even after that the first scenario.
After we finally figure out OK all after all said and done we've got a cart for this user.
We then have to decide whether or not there's already an item inside this items array that has the same
I.D. as a user might try to add the same item to a cart twice in a row and then the counterpoint to
that is the case in which there are no items yet and we need to take the product idea and add it in
fresh to the items array.
So in total like four different scenarios they are not mutually exclusive.
So we really need to kind of balance all these different scenarios and really think about what is going
to happen.
So to help us get through this we're going to write out some comments just to guide ourselves and really
figure out exactly what we need to do so we're going to first have some logic to figure out the carts
that's going to be okay.
Do we have a cart for this user or not.
Do we need to make one.
Are we going to retrieve one out of our carts repo after that we'll then write out some logic to either
increment quantity for existing product or add new product to items array.
So the second coming right here is the case in which we are trying to add a existing product inside
this items array for a second time in which case we want to update the quantity to two.
Otherwise if the product doesn't exist inside of here yet it's like no items whatsoever then we're going
to want to go ahead and actually add in the item in the very first place with the quantity of 1.
So that's what this if statement right here or this comment is talking about.
Okay.
Let's see what the cart first.
So again we don't know if there's a cart.
So to decide whether or not there is a cart we're going to say if not wreck dot session dot cart I.D.
remember wrecked out session is managed by Cookie sessions.
That's essentially our cookie right there we can kind of imagine.
So we're going to store whether or not the user has a cart on that cart I.D. property that's gonna be
the actual idea the cart stored inside of our carts repository.
So if we enter into this if case right here that means we don't have a cart we need to create one
and store the cart I.D. on the rect session cart I.D. property we can then enter the else case.
So inside of here we have a cart let's get it from the repository so there's the first two cases we're
going to consider let's take care of the if not cart I.D. case first.
So in this scenario we need to create a cart to create the cart we're going to use our hearts repository
that we just put together a moment ago Let's require in carts repo
from up one directory carts then inside of our if statement let's make sure we mark the enclosing function
as async because we're definitely going to use some A C async await syntax here because we're making
use of our carts repo so inside of here I'll say cart is going to be a weight carts repo not create
and remember whenever we call create we're going to pass in some starting object for the record that
we're trying to create that object is going to be assigned an I.D. property.
So our starting object like our default value is going to be just the items property and it's going
to start off as an empty array.
So essentially we're going to always have in items property by default it'll be an empty array and so
we can I add in some item setting as time goes on so inside this create object right here I'll say items
is going to be an empty array
so then after that we're going to take the cart that was created we're going to take the idea off that
thing and assign it back to our rect session dot cart I.D. property and that's what's going to associate
this cart with whoever just made this request.
So we'll say rec not session dot cart I.D. is cart dot I.D.
Now we can handle the case though in the case.
This means that we do have a card I.D. So we're going to take a look at a repository and try to retrieve
it.
It's all state counts.
Kurt is a wait Hertz repo and we're going to use that.
Find one or get one I forget the name of it up top my head.
We can find it inside of repository.
J.S. gets get one.
We're going to pass in the I.D. of the car that we're trying to retrieve we'll do get one.
And the idea the card that we're going to try to retrieve is wrecked out session card I.D..
So wreck session card I.D. Now in both cases for both branches of the if statement we've now assigned
a cart to a local variable that has been scoped into this if statement.
That means that we can't read the card later on down here which is where we actually care about it.
So let's do a quick refactor here right above the first if statement.
I'll say let carte and then rather than putting a cost in front of both these card keywords are variable
names.
I'm going to delete the contest.
It's never just going to update the cart variable that we declared up there.
It's now either way after that big if statement.
We should have a cart which bill to do a console log of cart and see some cart appear inside of our
console.
Let's save this again.
Run this and see what happens.
The very first time you run this we should see a console log of a cart that is coming from this branch
of the if statement because at this point time we just wrote this code.
We don't have a cart associate with us yet but then the second time that we attempt to access this end
point we're going to enter the LS case.
And so we will see a console log of a cart that already exists.
OK.
So we're going to save this I'm going to go back over to my browser.
I'm gonna go back to my product's listing and then click on any of the add to cart buttons.
And when I click on it my browser is going to hang.
That's totally ok.
Let's take a look back at our terminal and see what we got tobacco over here.
I've got a little typo hurts repo create is not a function so I probably just made a really bad typo
at some point in time.
Let's see I've got Kurt's repo up one directory carts Oh OK.
My mistake I made a little typo on my required statement right here.
That should be up one directory repositories parts.
That's better.
OK.
Let's save and refresh tries again.
Add to Cart.
There you go.
Product added to cart.
If I go back to my terminal I'll see a console log of the cart that was created.
And so notice that it has an idea of FP 1 E6.
So this is the cart that is assigned to me.
In theory my browser lives select specifically chrome.
This browser right here has a heart ideas property inside that cookie encoded inside the cookie.
And so whenever this browser window makes a false request to the server the server is then going to
enter into the else case and it's going to find the existing cart as opposed to creating a cart so if
I now do go back to this page and click on Add to cart again I can go to my terminal and I'll see these
same exact cart printed out right here and I know it's the same because it has the same I.D. as the
first one OK.
So that's pretty much it.
So either way we're now getting a cart available to us.
Now we just have to implement this other case right here.
The case in which we already have added this product and we need to increment the quantity or it is
a new product and we need to add it to the items array of the cart that we just got during step 1 Okay.
So quick pause right here and continue in just a moment.